JOB DESCRIPTION

Use your cyber and IT background to become an FBI Special Agent!

FBI Special Agents apply their professional experience and unique skill sets to their work and role every day. Because technology permeates every aspect of what we do, our Agents also come from all IT backgrounds including network information, cybersecurity, computer science, digital forensics and other technical specialties. We need professionals experienced in network security, computer science and software engineering to prevent cybercrimes, data theft, ransomware and other attacks to our national security.

You can expect continued specialized training once onboard and opportunities to work on some of the Bureau's most complex cases. The scope and scale of our investigations provide unique challenges unlike anything you could work on in the private sector.

SALARY LEVEL

$78,000.00 – $153,000.00
Salary is commensurate to experience and location.

DUTIES

Adhere to strict standards of conduct.
Undergo a rigorous background investigation, credit checks and a polygraph in order to obtain a Top Secret Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) Clearance.
Pass all physical fitness requirements; must be physically fit to complete training at the FBI Academy at Quantico, VA, and maintain a high level of fitness throughout your career.
Pass a medical exam, which includes, but is not limited to, meeting visual and hearing standards.
Successfully complete approximately 19 weeks of employment as a Special Agent trainee, while housed at the FBI Academy at Quantico.
Upon graduation from the FBI Academy, be available to transfer to one of the FBI's 56 Field Offices, including San Juan, Puerto Rico or remote resident agencies (satellite offices) to meet the needs of the FBI. Special Agents rarely return to their processing office. Applicants should ensure that their families are prepared for and support this move.
Throughout your career, be available for temporary duty assignments anywhere in the world, on either a temporary or a long-term basis.
Work a minimum of a 50-hour workweek, which may include irregular hours, and be on-call 24/7, including holidays and weekends.
Be willing and able to participate in arrests, execute search warrants, raids and similar assignments.
In addition, all Special Agent candidates must successfully complete the Special Agent Selection System (SASS), a mentally and physically challenging process designed to find only the most capable applicants. The selection process typically takes one year or more to complete.

KEY REQUIREMENTS

You must:

Be a U.S. citizen.
Be at least 23 years old and not have reached your 37th birthday on appointment.
Be able to obtain a Top Secret SCI Clearance.
Have two years of full-time professional work experience (see work experience waiver for exceptions).
Meet the FBI’s Employment Eligibility requirements.
Possess a valid driver’s license with at least six months driving experience.
EDUCATION

Candidates must have a bachelor’s degree or higher (preferably in computer science, engineering, data science, information technology or similar disciplines) from a U.S.-accredited college or university.
All degrees must be from an accredited college or university and must be verified by submitting college transcripts.

As the federal agency whose mission is to ensure the fair and impartial administration of justice for all Americans, the Department of Justice is committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive work environment. To build and retain a workforce that reflects the diverse experiences and perspectives of the American people, we welcome applicants from the many communities, identities, races, ethnicities, backgrounds, abilities, religions, and cultures of the United States who share our commitment to public service.

Job Type: Full-time

Pay: $78,000.00 - $153,000.00 per year

Benefits:

401(k)
Dental insurance
Flexible schedule
Health insurance
Life insurance
Paid time off
Professional development assistance
Vision insurance
Schedule:

8 hour shift
Holidays
On call
Weekend availability
Ability to commute/relocate:

San Francisco, CA: Reliably commute or planning to relocate before starting work (Required)
Experience:

Cybersecurity: 1 year (Preferred)
Work Location: In person